In this lecture, let's try adding an option for toggling between different block styles.
In my editor, I have added the alert box block to the page.
After a while, I may have second thoughts about this design.
I may want to use the other variation of this block.
There are two options at my disposal.
I can remove this block and add the other variation.
Alternatively, I can write the name of the class in the class field.
Both options are not ideal.
Adding and removing blocks is a waste of time.
Users would need to recreate the block.
The second option is not great either.
We shouldn't force users to memorize the classes of our blocks.
WordPress has a solution for our dilemma.
We can switch between blocks by using block styles.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to a page for this feature.
BLOCK Styles allow us to switch between different variations by toggling a class on the block.
Let's try applying block styles to the alert box.
BLOCK In your editor, open the block JSON file.
At the bottom of the configuration file at an array called Styles.
In this array, we can add an object for each style that can be applied to a block.
Let's try adding two styles.
Each object requires two properties.
The first property is called name.
If this style is selected, the value from the name property will be applied to the block as a class.
Let's set the name to regular.
Next, we need to add a property called Label.
This property will display a readable name to the user.
Our label will be set to regular.
The first style will be the default style of the block.
We do not have a class for this style, but that's perfectly fine.
We should always provide an option for reverting the block to its original style.
There's one more property which is optional.
We can set a default style by setting the is default property to true.
Let's add another object.
This time the name and label properties will be set to accented.
The name of the style is important.
WordPress will prefix the name of the class with is style.
The value from the name property will be appended after this word.
This is how we can switch between different styles.
Let's give our block a test in the browser.
Refresh the page.
Next, select the alert box block on the sidebar.
A new panel was added for switching between styles.
We no longer have to manually add a class to apply a style.
Behind the scenes, WordPress is toggling the classes on the block.
Under the Advanced Panel, we can monitor the class field for updates as we switch between styles.
The class name changes.
BLOCK styles are another way of toggling between classes.
To give our block a different appearance.
Users won't have to memorize our class.
They can easily switch between variations.